years and years ago emails would just
crush
it two years ago versus now they just
don't work the same as they used to and
the main reason for that is
personalization but with newsletters
open raids and the click raids go
through the
[Music]
roof all right so we are going to talk
about why newsletters are making a
comeback and why you should care yeah
right now everyone's using chat GPT Bard
whatever you want to call to create
content nothing new on that end but with
newsletters I've been sending out
newsletters for a long time I re we
recently did an episode of me breaking
down sending out I think it was like 200
55 million emails and we were screen
sharing uh some of my email stats but
years and years ago emails would just
crush it and I'm still getting on
average like a 40 plus% open rate which
is really good the big difference though
two years ago vers versus now emails
have lost its luster and they just don't
work the same as they used to and the
main reason for that is personalization
when you just send a list size a large
list size uh generic email it doesn't
work the same that it used to but the
beautiful thing is with tools like chat
GPT you can now crank out customized
content for each of your segments and
we're seeing the open rids and the click
rates go through the roof
and that's why we're saying newsletters
are making a huge comeback because it's
really easy to make customized
newsletters versus what it was before
and even though people are saying ah
email marketing and newsletters are dead
that's not necessarily true is it as
effective as it used to be no but if you
personalize the emails and customize
them and segment your audience and maybe
you have like eight or nine or 10
different emails that you're sending out
in a blast in essence you know one tenth
year your list gets one email another
10th gets another email and so forth so
on we're seeing the conversions just go
through the roof we we've talked about
this in the past too in terms of how
marketing is getting harder and how you
have to figure out how you can collect
first-party data and first-party data
means collecting emails collecting SMS
and things like that they the easy mode
is off hard mode is back on and
newsletters should be added to your
stack yeah the big thing that are
recommend anyone doing right now whether
you're buying traffic or you're getting
news organically or news news
subscribers organically you want to
figure out where they're coming from and
add segmentation automatically so I'll
give you example of this on the Neil
patel.com blog I have articles on
affiliate marketing SEO social media
content marketing the list goes on and
on if we know that someone came from a
SEO article and that's what they're
reading when they subscribe to our
newsletter will'll add in a note that
they're interested in SEO if they came
from all the affiliate marketing
articles will do the same thing for
affiliate marketing same with paid
advertising or same with social media
media so that way when we send out
emails we can customize a message
depending on where they first came to us
because that shows what their interest
is and that's how we're getting our
newsletters to convert extremely well
Neil you also shared something yesterday
of a someone that you met in Utah and
kind of what they're doing with their
newsletter do you want to reshare that
that wasn't really a newsletter but it
was for email so I was at an event
called uh pattern or acceleration by
pattern and I met a young kid in there
who was showing me his new email tool it
was him and two other co-founders who
spent three months building this and
what they've created is you can send an
email but within the email you can buy
you can be a lead you can buy you can do
whatever within the email so you don't
have to go to the website example of
this is if you sell t-shirts in the
email they can select the color the size
and check out right then and there in
the email without going to your website
and pay for it and get it delivered to
them and that's really cool and you're
going to see news our conversion rates
go through the roof once everyone starts
implementing Technologies like that now
if you have any questions leave a
comment below I'm here to answer them
and help you out if you enjoy the video
like it share it tell people about it
thank you very much